docs(migration): add the v0.16 migration guide (#357)
0xMiden/miden-docs: docs/builder/migration/09-vm-assembler.md

3. Rename `*_from_dir` calls to `*_from_root` and pass the root module file instead of the directory. Their `namespace` parameter is now `Option<&Path>` rather than a required `impl AsRef<Path>`.
4. Thread a package name through `assemble_program`, `assemble_library`, and `assemble_kernel`. Any string works; the CLI uses the literal `"program"`.
5. After `assemble_program`, call `.unwrap_program()` (panics on a non-executable package) or `.try_into_program()` to get the `Program` the processor expects.
6. Add `?` to `Assembler::with_kernel` — it is now fallible.

### Common Errors

| Error Message | Cause | Solution |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `cannot find type Library in miden_assembly` | Type removed | Use `Package`. |
| `no method named link_dynamic_library` | Collapsed into one method | `link_package(pkg, Linkage::Dynamic)`. |
| `expected Program, found Box<Package>` | `assemble_program` return type changed | Call `.unwrap_program()` or `.try_into_program()`. |
| `this function takes 2 arguments but 1 was supplied` | Assemble entry points take a package name | Pass a name as the first argument. |

---

## Core package split into `miden::core` + `miden::precompiles`

### Summary

> The single core MASM package was split into `miden-core` (namespace `miden::core`) and `miden-precompiles` (namespace `miden::precompiles`), freeing the bare `miden` namespace for sibling packages such as `miden-protocol` ([#3459](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3459), [#3222](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3222)). **Both must be linked** — `miden-core` has a runtime dependency on `miden-precompiles`.

Reviewer: The quick fix above links only `CoreLibrary::package()`, while this paragraph requires both packages. Current VM examples sometimes link core during assembly and load `&CoreLibrary` into `DefaultHost` for the merged forest. Could we show one complete supported pattern and explain where precompiles are supplied?

> The single core MASM package was split into `miden-core` (namespace `miden::core`) and `miden-precompiles` (namespace `miden::precompiles`), freeing the bare `miden` namespace for sibling packages such as `miden-protocol` ([#3459](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3459), [#3222](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3222)). **Both must be linked** — `miden-core` has a runtime dependency on `miden-precompiles`.

Reviewer: The package split from #3459 is important, but the quick fix above links only `CoreLibrary::package()`. Could we preserve the new organization while showing where both artifacts enter assembly and execution?

```suggestion
The single core MASM package was split into `miden-core` (namespace `miden::core`) and `miden-precompiles` (namespace `miden::precompiles`), freeing the bare `miden` namespace for sibling packages such as `miden-protocol` ([#3459](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3459), [#3222](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3222)). Core records a dynamic dependency on precompiles. Link both with `CoreLibrary::packages()` during assembly, and load `&CoreLibrary` into the host for execution so its merged MAST forest is available.
```

Package::read_from_bytes_trusted(bytes)?
Package::read_from_unchecked(&mut r)?  // skips MAST validation; only for self-produced bytes
Package::read_from_bytes_unchecked(bytes)?
```

### Migration Steps

1. Re-assemble every `.masp` package from source under 0.16, and re-serialize every cached `MastForest` blob. Invalidate on-disk and database-persisted copies.
2. Delete `.masl` artifacts and any code that reads them.
3. Discard serialized proofs from 0.15 — the proof envelope changed too.
4. Choose the reader that matches your trust boundary: `read_from_bytes` for anything from a registry, the network, or a user; `read_from_bytes_trusted` for your own build cache when you want debug info retained.

---

## `ExecutionProof` reworked; `Verifier` replaces the free `verify_*` functions

### Summary

`ExecutionProof` was restructured from `{ proof, hash_fn, pc_requests }` into two envelopes, `StarkProof` and `DeferredProof`, and **proof serialization changed** ([#3222](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3222)). The legacy proof-bound precompile request model was replaced by the deferred-DAG framework in `miden_core::deferred`.

> On the verification side, `verify(program_info, stack_inputs, stack_outputs, proof)` and `verify_with_precompiles(..)` were replaced by a `Verifier` type and a free `verify(proof, claim)` taking a single `ExecutionClaim` that bundles what used to be three arguments ([#3422](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3422), [#3447](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3447)).

Reviewer: The native verifier mapping is right, but VM 0.23.3 also exposed recursive MASM verification as `exec.vm::verify_proof`. In 0.29.1 it becomes `verify_vm_proof`, takes a claim commitment, and Rust callers use `RecursiveVerifierInputs::for_request`. Could this section cover that migration?

> On the verification side, `verify(program_info, stack_inputs, stack_outputs, proof)` and `verify_with_precompiles(..)` were replaced by a `Verifier` type and a free `verify(proof, claim)` taking a single `ExecutionClaim` that bundles what used to be three arguments ([#3422](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3422), [#3447](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3447)).

Reviewer: The native verifier mapping is right, but recursive MASM verification also changed. Could we cover both paths here?

```suggestion
On the native side, `verify(program_info, stack_inputs, stack_outputs, proof)` and `verify_with_precompiles(..)` were replaced by a `Verifier` type and a free `verify(proof, claim)` taking a single `ExecutionClaim` ([#3422](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3422), [#3447](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3447)). Recursive MASM verification moved from `exec.vm::verify_proof` to `exec.vm::verify_vm_proof`; the new procedure consumes a claim commitment and returns the deferred root plus proof security parameters. Rust callers construct its request-addressed advice with `RecursiveVerifierInputs::for_request`.
```

### Affected Code

```rust
// Before (0.15)
let security_level = miden_verifier::verify(
    program_info, stack_inputs, stack_outputs, proof,
)?;
let (level, commitment) = miden_verifier::verify_with_precompiles(
    program_info, stack_inputs, stack_outputs, proof, &registry,
)?;
```

```rust
// After (0.16)
use miden_core::program::ExecutionClaim;
use miden_verifier::{Verifier, verify};

let claim = ExecutionClaim::from_program_info(program_info, stack_inputs, stack_outputs);

> let security_level: u32 = verify(proof, claim)?;                 // free fn, default config

Reviewer: `verify` consumes both `proof` and `claim`, so the next two calls reuse moved values and this block does not compile. Could these calls be shown as separate alternatives, with fresh inputs for `verify_partial`?

let security_level: u32 = Verifier::new().verify(proof, claim)?; // equivalent

// Partial (delegable) verification returns a #[must_use] obligation:
let (level, unsettled) = Verifier::new()
    .with_max_deferred_elements(n)
    .verify_partial(proof, claim)?;
let root: Word = unsettled.root();
```

> `ExecutionProof` now exposes `miden_proof() -> &StarkProof` and `deferred_proof() -> &DeferredProof`, with constructors `ExecutionProof::new(miden, deferred)` and `from_parts(bytes, hash_fn, deferred)`. The 0.15 public fields, the three-argument `new`, `stark_proof()`, `deferred_state()`, and `into_parts()` are gone.

Reviewer: `ExecutionProof::deferred_state()` and `verify_with_max_deferred_elements` do not appear in any released VM tag from 0.23.3 through 0.29.1. Could we remove these two non-baseline APIs so the 0.15 migration list only names methods users could have called?

> `ExecutionProof` now exposes `miden_proof() -> &StarkProof` and `deferred_proof() -> &DeferredProof`, with constructors `ExecutionProof::new(miden, deferred)` and `from_parts(bytes, hash_fn, deferred)`. The 0.15 public fields, the three-argument `new`, `stark_proof()`, `deferred_state()`, and `into_parts()` are gone.

Reviewer: `deferred_state()` and the free `verify_with_max_deferred_elements` occur in the changelog, but not in VM 0.23.3, VM 0.29.1, or current 0.30 source. The released API mapping is:

```suggestion
`ExecutionProof` now exposes `miden_proof() -> &StarkProof` and `deferred_proof() -> &DeferredProof`, with constructors `ExecutionProof::new(miden, deferred)` and `from_parts(bytes, hash_fn, deferred)`. The 0.15 public fields, three-argument `new`, `stark_proof()`, `hash_fn()`, `precompile_requests()`, and `into_parts()` are gone. For a non-default partial-verification budget, configure `Verifier::with_max_deferred_elements(n)` before calling `verify_partial`.
```

> `ExecutionProof` now exposes `miden_proof() -> &StarkProof` and `deferred_proof() -> &DeferredProof`, with constructors `ExecutionProof::new(miden, deferred)` and `from_parts(bytes, hash_fn, deferred)`. The 0.15 public fields, the three-argument `new`, `stark_proof()`, `deferred_state()`, and `into_parts()` are gone.

Reviewer: `deferred_state()` and the free `verify_with_max_deferred_elements` do not occur in either migration endpoint, VM 0.23.3 or released VM 0.29.1. The released 0.29.1 API mapping is:

```suggestion
In VM 0.29.1, `ExecutionProof` exposes `miden_proof() -> &StarkProof` and `deferred_proof() -> &DeferredProof`, with constructors `ExecutionProof::new(miden, deferred)` and `from_parts(bytes, hash_fn, deferred)`. The 0.15 public fields, three-argument `new`, `stark_proof()`, `hash_fn()`, `precompile_requests()`, and `into_parts()` are gone. For a non-default partial-verification budget, configure `Verifier::with_max_deferred_elements(n)` before calling `verify_partial`.
```

  [lib]
  namespace = "miden::protocol"
+ path = "mod.masm"

  [[bin]]
  name = "entry"
+ path = "bin/main.masm"
```

### Migration Steps

1. Add an explicit `path` to every `[lib]` and `[[bin]]` in every `miden-project.toml`.
2. If you construct `LibTarget` / `BinTarget` in Rust, drop the `Some(..)` wrapper around `path`.

---

## `miden-vm bundle` reworked

### Summary

`miden-vm bundle` now takes the path to a **root `.masm` module** instead of a directory, `--kernel` is a boolean flag instead of taking a path, and the output is a `.masp` package instead of a `.masl` library. With `--kernel` set, the kernel's support modules are derived from the explicit `mod` declarations in the root module ([#3216](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3216), [#3220](https://github.com/0xMiden/miden-vm/pull/3220)).

### Affected Code

```bash
# Before (0.15)
miden-vm bundle --namespace mylib ./src            # directory  -> out.masl
miden-vm bundle --kernel ./kernel.masm ./src       # --kernel takes a path

# After (0.16)
miden-vm bundle --namespace mylib ./src/mod.masm   # root module -> out.masp
miden-vm bundle --kernel ./kernel/mod.masm         # --kernel is a flag
```

> `--namespace` is now optional in the non-kernel case: if omitted, the assembler expects a `namespace` declaration in the root module, where 0.15 fell back to the directory name. For `--kernel` the namespace defaults to `$kernel`. A new `-r` / `--release` flag disables debug symbols.

Reviewer: In v0.29.2, `BundleCmd::execute` never reads the `release` flag, and the assembler keeps `emit_debug_info = true`. Could this claimed effect be removed until `miden-vm bundle --release` actually strips debug data?
